docs/data-sources/archetype.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "alz_archetype Data Source - terraform-provider-alz"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Archetype data source
---

# alz_archetype (Data Source)

Archetype data source

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "alz_archetype" "example" {
  defaults = {
    location = "westeurope"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `base_archetype` (String) The base archetype name to use. This has been generated from the provider lib directories.
- `defaults` (Attributes Map) Archetype default values (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--defaults))
- `name` (String) The management group name, forming part of the resource id.
- `parent_id` (String) The parent management group name.

### Optional

- `policy_assignments_to_add` (Attributes Map) A map of policy assignments names to add to the archetype. The map key is the policy assignemnt name. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add))
- `policy_assignments_to_remove` (List of String) A list of policy assignment names to remove from the archetype.
- `policy_definitions_to_add` (List of String) A list of policy definition names to add to the archetype.
- `policy_definitions_to_remove` (List of String) A list of policy definition names to remove from the archetype.
- `policy_set_definitions_to_add` (List of String) A list of policy set definition names to add to the archetype.
- `policy_set_definitions_to_remove` (List of String) A list of policy set definition names to remove from the archetype.
- `role_assignments_to_add` (Attributes Map) A list of role definition names to add to the archetype. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--role_assignments_to_add))
- `role_definitions_to_add` (List of String) A list of role definition names to add to the archetype.
- `role_definitions_to_remove` (List of String) A list of role definition names to remove from the archetype.
- `subscription_ids` (List of String) A list of subscription ids to add to the management group.

<a id="nestedatt--defaults"></a>
### Nested Schema for `defaults`

Required:

- `location` (String) Default location

Optional:

- `log_analytics_workspace_id` (String) Default Log Analytics workspace id


<a id="nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policy_assignments_to_add`

Required:

- `name` (Attributes Map) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name))

<a id="nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policy_assignments_to_add.name`

Required:

- `display_name` (String) The policy assignment display name

Optional:

- `enforcement_mode` (String) The enforcement mode of the policy assignment. Must be one of `Default`, or `DoNotEnforce`.
- `identity` (String) The identity type. Must be one of `SystemAssigned` or `UserAssigned`.
- `identity_ids` (List of String) A list of identity ids to assign to the policy assignment. Required if `identity` is `UserAssigned`.
- `non_compliance_message` (Attributes Set) The non-compliance messages to use for the policy assignment. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name--non_compliance_message))
- `policy_definition_id` (String) The resource id of the policy definition. Conflicts with `policy_definition_name`.
- `policy_definition_name` (String) The name of the policy definition. Must be in the AlzLib, if it is not use `policy_definition_id` instead. Conflicts with `policy_definition_id`.

<a id="nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name--non_compliance_message"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policy_assignments_to_add.name.non_compliance_message`

Required:

- `message` (String) The non-compliance message.

Optional:

- `policy_definition_reference_id` (String) The policy definition reference id (not the resource id) to use for the non compliance message. This references the definition within the policy set.




<a id="nestedatt--role_assignments_to_add"></a>
### Nested Schema for `role_assignments_to_add`

Required:

- `definition` (String) The role definition name, or resource id.
- `object_id` (String) The principal object id to assign.

Commit message:

feat: custom type for policy params

docs/data-sources/archetype.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "alz_archetype Data Source - terraform-provider-alz"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  Archetype data source.
---

# alz_archetype (Data Source)

Archetype data source.

## Example Usage

```terraform
data "alz_archetype" "example" {
  defaults = {
    location = "westeurope"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `base_archetype` (String) The base archetype name to use. This has been generated from the provider lib directories.
- `defaults` (Attributes Map) Archetype default values (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--defaults))
- `name` (String) The management group name, forming part of the resource id.
- `parent_id` (String) The parent management group name.

### Optional

- `policy_assignments_to_add` (Attributes Map) A map of policy assignments names to add to the archetype. The map key is the policy assignemnt name. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add))
- `policy_assignments_to_remove` (List of String) A list of policy assignment names to remove from the archetype.
- `policy_definitions_to_add` (List of String) A list of policy definition names to add to the archetype.
- `policy_definitions_to_remove` (List of String) A list of policy definition names to remove from the archetype.
- `policy_set_definitions_to_add` (List of String) A list of policy set definition names to add to the archetype.
- `policy_set_definitions_to_remove` (List of String) A list of policy set definition names to remove from the archetype.
- `role_assignments_to_add` (Attributes Map) A list of role definition names to add to the archetype. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--role_assignments_to_add))
- `role_definitions_to_add` (List of String) A list of role definition names to add to the archetype.
- `role_definitions_to_remove` (List of String) A list of role definition names to remove from the archetype.
- `subscription_ids` (List of String) A list of subscription ids to add to the management group.

<a id="nestedatt--defaults"></a>
### Nested Schema for `defaults`

Required:

- `location` (String) Default location

Optional:

- `log_analytics_workspace_id` (String) Default Log Analytics workspace id


<a id="nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policy_assignments_to_add`

Required:

- `name` (Attributes Map) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name))

<a id="nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policy_assignments_to_add.name`

Required:

- `display_name` (String) The policy assignment display name

Optional:

- `enforcement_mode` (String) The enforcement mode of the policy assignment. Must be one of `Default`, or `DoNotEnforce`.
- `identity` (String) The identity type. Must be one of `SystemAssigned` or `UserAssigned`.
- `identity_ids` (List of String) A list of identity ids to assign to the policy assignment. Required if `identity` is `UserAssigned`.
- `non_compliance_message` (Attributes Set) The non-compliance messages to use for the policy assignment. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name--non_compliance_message))
- `parameters` (String) The parameters to use for the policy assignment.
**Note:** This is a JSON string, and not a map. This is because the parameter values have different types, which confuses the type system used by the provider sdk.
Use `jsonencode()` to construct the map.
The map keys must be strings, the values are `any` type.
- `policy_definition_id` (String) The resource id of the policy definition. Conflicts with `policy_definition_name`.
- `policy_definition_name` (String) The name of the policy definition. Must be in the AlzLib, if it is not use `policy_definition_id` instead. Conflicts with `policy_definition_id`.

<a id="nestedatt--policy_assignments_to_add--name--non_compliance_message"></a>
### Nested Schema for `policy_assignments_to_add.name.non_compliance_message`

Required:

- `message` (String) The non-compliance message.

Optional:

- `policy_definition_reference_id` (String) The policy definition reference id (not the resource id) to use for the non compliance message. This references the definition within the policy set.




<a id="nestedatt--role_assignments_to_add"></a>
### Nested Schema for `role_assignments_to_add`

Required:

- `definition` (String) The role definition name, or resource id.
- `object_id` (String) The principal object id to assign.
